for each one of my guests if they're
clearly not otherwise a scientist I try
to find out what kind of science
encounters they had as children judging
whether some moment with their maths
teacher or science teacher left a good
or bad impression on them and then see
if we can trace the trajectory of their
life from then onward to the end of
loving science or hating it and so of
course i ask that of Bill Clinton Bill
Clinton is I would count them among the
scientifically literate presidents and
so I don't think you can underestimate
the value of having a fun or interesting
science class as a kid because it could
set you on a path that who knows one day
you might be leading a nation and that
science literacy would be kind of
necessary going into the 21st century
the issue and childhood is not knowledge
that's how people normally think of
science literacy how much do you know
it's not even in my opinion it's not
even about that but science literacy
really is the ability to question what's
going on around you it is to be infused
with a sense of curiosity about things
you don't know things you want to figure
out what they are and how they work in
childhood if you have curiosity at all
kids have curiosity but the challenge is
keeping that curiosity through middle
school into high school and then into
adulthood
I've said many times in many places i
think a scientist is just a kid that
really hasn't grown up yet if we define
growing up as losing your curiosity
because scientists and children alike
look around the natural world and just
wonder how it all works